>> Will Sentance: But
let's go through this line by line and
understand it incompletion.
Alex, line one, what are we saving?
>> Alex: We're declaring a function,
label functionCreator.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent,
there it is, no different than normal.
Saving it into global memory
functionCreator, it's a whole function.
People, we're almost there.
[LAUGH] So that's not.
All right, next line, Anna,
left-hand side of next line.
>> Anna: Declaring a function
called generatedFunc.
>> Will Sentance: I wouldn't say that.
Declaring a label generatedFunc,
into which will be stored, what Anna?
>> Anna: The result of functionCreator.
>> Will Sentance: Is she right?
She's spot on.
Exactly the output,
the executed, nothing, right?
The return value of executing
functionCreator running it.
And Anna, what told you that?
What symbols told you that
right-hand side was work to be done?
>> Anna: The parentheses.
>> Will Sentance: The parentheses,
exactly.
It's 1,000 times people have found
this single line one of the hardest
is the biggest gotcha in JavaScript.
It's not really a gotcha,
gotcha is like if I were to trick.
More like just we really
need to understand what
we're doing when we run functions.
What we're doing when we say functions,
we're doing when we declare labels
to know what's happening this line.
Okay, there it is generatedFunk.
For now it's uninitialized,
I was gonna tell you why?
Why we say uninitialized?
Undefined was what would happen
when you declared your label that
was gonna be the output of the function
on the right hand side with var.
Then it would default one find
while the function ran, and
then you would redefine it as
a result of the function call.
With a constant coloration,
you can't have two data types
changed out you can't declare
it as undefined initially.
Default is gonna find and then when you
get the result of the function call,
suddenly switch it out to whatever
the result the function call is.
So instead, you don't even actually
fully declare the label generatedFunk
until you've actually got the result
of the right-hand side running.
This relates back sorry, everybody.
This relates back to Charles
his question much earlier
about undefined versus an initialized.
GeneratedFunc declared,
what do we need, Anna to go and
execute to figure out what
to store in generatedFunk?
What do we need to go and
execute to figure out what to
store into generated function?
>> Anna: FunctionCreator.
>> Will Sentance: FunctionCreator,
let's get executing.
All right, so
we're gonna execute functionCreator.
Anna, we need a new what?
>> Anna: Execution context.
>> Will Sentance: Excellent.
>> Anna: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: And
we know that whatever comes out of it is
going to be stored into generatedFunc.
Let's create our execution context,
there it is.
>> Will Sentance: And,
[LAUGH] it's a rhombus at this point.
And Charles into it we go, line one.
What are we gonna do?
We're not gonna use this thing.
I just want you to show,
I just wanna make sure everyone knows
we're saving stuff into memory.
What's the first thing
we save into memory?
>> Charles: Counter 0.
>> Will Sentance: Counter 0, exactly.
Okay, I'm gonna do my cool stack
as well actually for this one.
It turns out to be increasingly
important to think in terms of it
to not get confused.
All right, and
first thing on it will always global,
but what are we adding to it, Michael?
>> Michael: Add three, or functionCreator.
>> Will Sentance: FunctionCreator,
because we're calling what
function right now, Michael?
>> Michael: We're calling functionCreator.
>> Will Sentance: FunctionCreator,
it gets added to the call stack.
Because our execution context in
action right now is functionCreators.
Our thread of execution has
woven into functionCreator.
That's where we are right now,
is top of our call stack, okay?
David, we say counter is
0 inside of local memory.
David, next line, what's it say to do?
>> David: We're declaring
a function with the label add3.
>> Will Sentance: Add3, there it is.
Okay, are we gonna use it, David?
>> David: Not right now.
>> Will Sentance: Now,
what are we gonna do with it instead?
>> David: We're gonna return it.
>> Will Sentance: Exactly,
I'm gonna write that here, return add3.
Anyone wanna tell me, therefore,
what JavaScript actually does
in that return statement?
Jasmine, you wanna tell me what
JavaScript does in that return statement,
return add3?
>> Jasmine: Replaces add3 with a function?
>> Will Sentance: You hear this?
Exactly, it looks up the function
definition using that label, and
it grabs the function definition which
is the bit in the parentheses, num,
and then the body of that.
It grabs all that and it returns it out
of the call to functionCreator and
stores it, Jasmine, where?
>> Jasmine: In generated function.
>> Will Sentance: Into
generatedFunc she is spot on.
Into generatedFunc it goes.
It was formerly known as
its birth name was add3,
but now we returned out all
the code grabbed it all,
shorted out the bottom no name.
We lost that name, we just returned that,
we just use it to look up
the function as Jasmine said.
And it got stored into generatedFunc.
If I were to now console log
generatedFunc, I would see input num,
body, whatever it says, const result
= num + 3 would return result.
That is now generatedFunc.
That is what it means to return
a function from another function.
Let's now, this is now popped off
the call stack and all this goodies here.
Well, in theory,
the execution context is gone.
The execution code is all deleted.
And [INAUDIBLE]
that's really nice, and
we go back out to global where we hit,
what line?
Sam, left hand side.
>> Sam: Result.
>> Will Sentance: Result,
and the right-hand side says
go run what function, Sam?
>> Sam: GeneratedFunk.
>> Will Sentance: Go run generatedFunk,
and
what was generatedFunks original name,
Sam?
>> Sam: FunctionCreator.
>> Will Sentance: It's so
easy to think it, right?
What is generatedFunc?
>> Sam: Add3.
>> Will Sentance: Folk with literally 10,
15 years experience,
an enormous gift in engineering still
get caught by this every single time.
And yet if we don't get it
absolutely precise in our head,
everything falls apart in
understanding what's the composure.
1,000 times, I've really stressed for
you, Sam is in the company of
I'm literally talking about
the rock stone of us at city term.
[LAUGH] The superstar developer
she's a person that you
every single time this throws people.
We've got to go run that function one
time, store something in generatedFunc.
It is the functionality of add3, and
from that line on generatedFunc is
the code formally known as add3.
Thank you, Sam honestly because everybody,
who's going,
yeah, I thought the same thing.
Appreciate that for Sam.
So generatedFunc Jasmine is
the function that was born as?
>> Jasmine: Add3.
>> Will Sentance: As add3,
the function definition for
me known as add3.
Now known as generatedFunc,
it's global label.
That was it's label inside of the function
created when it was originally saved
just like we saved counter inside of that.
But we grabbed its code, we only used,
when it says return out of 3,
we only used that label to
find the code of the function.
Return the out stored in generatedFunc.
Some of you may thinking,
yeah, yeah, yeah, I got this.
I promise you, people it is a real touchy.
Out it comes generatedFunc is really,
David, the code formally known as?
>> David: add3.
>> Will Sentance: add3, meaning after I
leave functionCreator inside of which add3
was saved, I can't reference add3 anymore,
it's gone.
Unless, I saved it in a new global label.
David, what was that new
global label I saved add3 in?
>> David: GeneratedFunction.
>> Will Sentance: GeneratedFunc, so
when I run generatedFunc,
I'm really running what, Eric?
>> Eric: Add3.
>> Will Sentance: Add3, so if I want
to refer to Add 3 out and global,
what's his new name, Andrew?
>> Andrew: Generate-
>> Will Sentance: GeneratedFunc,
is generatedFunc actually functionCreator,
Andrew?
>> Andrew: No
>> Will Sentance: No,
what I need to change, Andrew, in order to
make generatingFunc actually does a new
label for
the whole function creative code?
What I need to change in that line so the
generatedFunc is actually just a label for
all the functionCreator?
>> Andrew: I remove the parentheses.
>> Will Sentance: Remove the parentheses,
spot on very nice from Andrew.
All right, but it is a the output of
a one time running or function green,
which is good.
All right, I don't know if you
have by the way, I promise you.
This is super tricky this bit.
So let's run generatedFunc,
new execution context.
There it is,
it's put it on the call stack.
Sorry, everybody, I do apologize.
We're executing generatedFunc
we are brand new,
[CROSSTALK] excellent generatedFunc
formally know as add3, no.
Yes, add3 with the input of sorry, 2, I've
done this so many times with a different
function that I can't get my head out
of it with the input of 2, sorry folks.
There it is, with the input 2,
there we go.
GeneratedFunc input of 2.
Now here is the especially tricky bit,
in my opinion of all this.
Here is the especially tricky
bit of it all, is in order for
me as a developer to figure out
what generatedFunc is doing.
Where do I take my eye, Alex, in order to
figure out what generatedFunc is doing?
>> Alex: You look at whatever was
returned from functionCreator.
>> Will Sentance: Well, that is a very
sophisticated way of putting it, yes.
But actually, in my eye goes
back up to add3 like I have to.
And so we get this false
sense that JavaScript thread
goes back up into functionCreator.
It definitely does not, and
huge shout out to, Alex for
stressing that by saying
actually it goes and
looks what was saved in generatedFunc,
which was the definition of code about 3.
In fact, this f just represents
the code of add3 being saved.
Now we're in global, there ain't no
going back into functionCreator,
that's done, that's gone.
Instead, we're going and
looking in the code over in here,
which was roughly num, and
then return out num + 3, roughly.
That's where we're going to look,
yeah, go ahead, Virginia.
>> Virginia: It's just a quick question,
so when you say we turn at 3.
And you're saying is it
doing a literal copy of
add3-
>> Will Sentance: Okay.
>> Virginia: So that,
when I go and say, like I say,
generateFunc 2 is equal to add3.
So those two different copies
in memory of that function it-
>> Will Sentance: GeneratedFunc 2 is-
>> Virginia: So I can go back and say,
generateFunc 2 equals
to function generator?
>> Will Sentance: FunctionCreator
to being-
>> Virginia: That same one-
>> Will Sentance: No, no,
it'll end up being?
Do you see how important it is we get
our technical communication, right?
So let's go on to Virginia's
question in just a second,
once we've got through this.
But I want you to you think, Virginia,
before you ask the question.
You said, if I went back and
wrote generatedFunc 2 equals
functionCreator-
>> Virginia: Well,
calling functionCreator.
>> Will Sentance: So important,
we'll come back to the question
in a second, Virginia, I promise.
But just, yeah, we'll come back to that
in one second, I promise you, Virginia.
But for now, let's stay in generatedFunc.
We're running it, everyone together,
generatedFunc is a function definition
that was originally known, when it
was inside the functionCreator, as?
>> Add3
>> Will Sentance: Yeah, good, exactly, and
so into it we go.
And who said function multiplied by 2?
That was a good throwback
reference that someone said that.
All right, into it we go, and
we, unfortunately, although we
don't have to, we can go look here.
What's the parameter to which the two
is going to be assigned, Michael?
>> Michael: Num.
>> Will Sentance: Num,
raise your hand if you look back into
functionCreative to figure that out.
But of course, we all do that we
don't memorize all phones coming out.
But I wish we could sort
of see console generated
funk in that middle in
between those two lines.
And that's where we should always
restrict ourselves make ourselves console
generatedFunc to figure out what
the code is we're running down there.
So that we don't think of
going back into our code where
we were initially saved
because it ain't in there.
We don't get to thread back into that,
okay?
But all right, number two, let me do
results, which is 2 plus 3, which is 5.
And then we return the value of result
in to, why did I call in both results?
Dear, I thought I changed that.
Return the value results, everybody in
to what global constant also called?
>> Results.
>> Will Sentance: That's a bad
explanation by me, I apologize.
Note these are in different domains and
so they're not gonna override each other.
Okay.
>> Will Sentance: What was I gonna ask?
That was what I was gonna say.
We're gonna come to thumbs,
where Virginia's gonna raise her question.
Thumbs on in a moment, we saved code,
functionCreator, there it is.
We then saved a label generatedFunc for
whatever came from a one time
running of functionCreator.
There's a friends to say
go run functionCreator, and
do we went we created
a brand new function add3.
And then rather than using it,
we returned out its code.
And stored it under a new
label generatedFunc.
And from then on forevermore generatedFunc
cares nothing about functionCreator.
It only cares about the add3
function that's now stored in it.
So we run it, and
we run generatedFunc and it's just add3.
We can just do it, it feels weird.
We didn't put friends on the end,
no problem.
And it's running add3 and
put 2 into it, and
it goes nominees two
result is 2 plus 3 is 5,
return at results into
global constant result.
Okay folk, you might be thinking
why the hell do we do this?
Why the hell did we save a function
we could have declared globally
inside another?
We'll see that gives our functions
the biggest superpower in JavaScript.